Who Said That? 
This project started off really small. I wanted to create a quick memory/observation game with minimal tech. The original idea was:

Someone says a Micro Agression to you? What do they look like?

 Phase 1: Bare Minimum with Tkinter
I first coded just the core game states using Tkinter: a main menu, a scene where someone says something rude, and a guessing screen with buttons representing different characters. I kept the logic tight:

See Figures 1-4

def create_main_menu(self):
    create dropdown to choose difficulty and start button
About an hour in I realized I wouldnt need anything for the UI but tinkster.

→ show a character → they say something → you guess who and what → get scored.

 Phase 2: AI Sprites + Real Content
The next step was to build out the actual game content. I used AI to generate the character portraits — I ended up with 200 unique faces, each meant to represent a random, diverse person who might plausibly say something out-of-pocket.

Then I added those portraits into the game like this:

def find_valid_images(self):
    # Pulls all files named like output (0).jpg from the Character Assets folder
I also added a list of rude quotes — some were coded, passive-aggressive microaggressions, others were intentionally offbeat or absurd.

Phase 3: Scoring System Design
Once I had characters and quotes in, the next major challenge was designing a scoring system that felt fair and meaningful.

I wanted the player to be scored based on:

Choosing the right person

Typing their quote correctly

The quote-typing score is calculated letter-by-letter:


def calculate_score(player_input, correct_text):
    # Compares typed quote with actual quote, char by char
Originally the score was a percentage. But that didn't feel satisfying enough — especially if you’re playing multiple rounds. So I switched it to a point system with multipliers based on difficulty:


self.total_score += round(base_score * self.config.point_multiplier)
🔁 Phase 4: Rounds + Replayability
The game is short — just one quote at a time — so I added a round system that lets players keep playing, banking their score and increasing difficulty as they go. Between rounds, the player chooses their difficulty:


def choose_round_difficulty(self):
    # Let player pick Easy, Medium, or Hard each round
Each difficulty tier changes:

How many people are in the grid

How fast the quote is shown

How many points you can earn (e.g. 10 for Easy, 50 for Medium, 100 for Hard)

Medium and Hard also include a grid shuffle mechanic that makes the guessing phase more chaotic.

🔊 Phase 5: Adding Sound with Pygame
Originally, I wasn't even going to use pygame — I didn’t need it for visuals. But once the mechanics were in place, I realized sound could take this project to the next level. So I brought it in just for sound and music.

Here’s how I handled it:

python
Copy
def play_sound(filename):
    # Plays a one-shot sound effect (e.g. typewriter, buzzer)
python
Copy
def play_music(track, loop=-1):
    # Plays background music and loops it
Sounds I included:

Typewriter click when the quote appears

Card shuffle noise during grid transitions

Buzzer and chime depending on if you’re right or wrong

Score counter sound on round end

Looping intro and in-game background tracks

I also built a volume slider and sound toggle so players can mute or adjust sound live from the menu.

🏁 Final Features
Round-based difficulty system

Dynamic quote matching and scoring

200 AI-generated characters

Soundtrack and effects through Pygame

Commented, readable code so others can learn or build on it

 reflections
This was a quick build, but it evolved into something way more thoughtful. It's about memory, pattern recognition, identity, and tone — but it also became a small critique of how easily we internalize or misattribute harmful speech.

I used basic tech (Tkinter + Pygame), but got a lot of mileage by focusing on creative constraint and content-first design. Honestly, Tkinter held up — and with the sound layer added, the game feels full.

If I kept working on this, I’d explore:

Tracking high scores across sessions

Player stats or a streak system

Exporting to standalone apps for easy sharing

Adding character bios or randomized voices

